# Twitter-Predictive-Modelling
Factors influencing Tweet virality in the UK – A Predictive model for UK companies


Social media has become vital to organizations' communication strategies, allowing them to interact with their audience in real time and influence public opinion. This research aims to understand the factors that contribute to the virality of tweets within the business context of the United Kingdom. The study focused on companies listed on the FTSE 350 in the UK and identify the characteristics of popular tweets, and created a predictive model to forecast the retweet status (retweet or not) and retweet level (1-100,101-1000,>1000) of business-related tweets for UK companies. The dataset was collected from the public Twitter API for 36 months, covering 289 companies. Correlation analysis and Principal Component Analysis (PCA) were applied to the data. The random forest approach, Gradient Boosting, Logistic Regression, Decision Tree, Neural network, Classification and Regression Tree (CART) and Logistic regression were used for binary classification of the dataset, and Random Forest had the best performance. A multi-class classification of the dataset was done, and Linear regression had better performance than Decision Tree Regression and Random Forest Regression in terms of Mean Squared Error (MSE), Root Mean Square Error (RMSE), R-squared (R2) and Adjusted R- squared (RR2), respectively. The data were then fitted to linear regression, and a predictive model was created. The prediction model developed in this study has the potential to provide valuable guidance to other UK businesses on predicting the number of retweets a tweet will get before posting it.
